---
layout: post
title: "Welcome"
date: 2007-09-08 15:04:00 +0000
disabled: true
---
To begin I would like to welcome you to my blog, and give a brief introduction.  My purpose in beginning a web blog is simple:  My web hosting provided me with 10 SQL databases and I have only been using two, and I thought to myself that it might be nice to create a blog to publish my essays and stories.  And that gets me to the meat of what this blog will be about.  I have no intention of simply using this blog as a diary, as I hardly find it intellectually stimulating to read about how some "got up this morning, and took a shower, and brushed my teeth."  In fact I find writing such as this very depressing, as I believe one should eat breakfast ''before'' brushing their teeth.  I do, however, plan on publishing some of my older journal entries, along with an analysis of those entries.  In so doing the analysis should prove more intellectually stimulating than the journal entries themselves.
As I mentioned above I intend to use this blog to publish my essays and stories.  So I would like to make a note that some of the items that I will be publishing will be much older than the dates they are published.
Further, on the topic of criticism I would like to note that commenting on grammar or composition errors for older essays is irrelevant, as I have no intention to update my older work.  Constructive criticism on any of the short stories is encouraged, but as with essays I may or may not re-proof the stories, depending on how I feel about them now.

