---
layout: post
title: "YouTube"
date: 2009-10-24 12:10:00 +0000
---
Being that I have rarely had cable TV, and that I work during the evenings, I haven't had much time to catch up on the quality shows on prime time TV. Don't think I am condoning excessive TV watching, most people need a break from reality, and I find that, for me, TV suits that purpose quite well. However, as I said, I haven't had the opportunity to see anything particular good, and so I have turned to the internet for entertainment, and specifically I have turned to YouTube. For those of you who haven't watched anything on YouTube, you're better off. YouTube is crap.

It isn't the service itself that is bad. No, YouTube is a great opportunity for you to share videos with your friends. Record Labels such as Universal Music Group and Columbia Records also post official music video so that music lovers can learn about the latest music, and rediscover old favorites. Network Television stations such as CBS are now offering full episodes of classic syndicated television series such as Star Trek. All these things are well and fine. They offer a way for friends to connect to each other, and a way to view professional developed media.

What I don't like about YouTube is the so called <i>YouTube celebrities</i>. These are the channels such as Smosh, Lisa Nova, Fred, iJustine, and of course the infamous Chris Crocker, and a whole host of other <i>famous</i> YouTubers. I was first apprised to YouTube several years ago, and I have watched all of the YouTube celebrities that I mentioned, and many more. My final verdict on them is that they are the butt of YouTube. When I first saw some these YouTube celebrities I wanted some of them to succeed. I hoped that some of them would somehow break into mainstream media and get the real celebrity that I thought they deserved. I now realize I was wrong in that hope.

Celebrity YouTubers suck. The content they create is worse than B movies. Most of them spend too much effort trying to express their political views rather than entertain. The actors have no talent. They are annoying. They may have one or two good videos, but everything after that is just annoying and unoriginal. For all these reasons none of them will ever become famous.

The only YouTuber I have heard of to go onto television was Jessica Rose (Bree of the lonelygirl15 fame), who appeared on the cable series <i>Greek</i>, but she was an actress hired to appear on the lonelygirl5 channel to begin with. A few other YouTubers have appeared on sketch comedy shows such as MadTV, but never with major roles, and honestly I saw a few YouTubers on MadTV and they were the worst actors on the show, and MadTV was pretty bad to begin with. Honestly, if these YouTubers want to get into television or movies they should study acting, and not continuously produce the crap that they are putting out.

Okay, I will admit that there are a few YouTube channels that I subscribe to. I will list them, and I can accept that some people will criticize me for watching them, but most of them could not be categorized as <i>YouTube celebrities</i>. They are: marquisdejolie, confusedmatthew, JamesNintendoNerd, and TeEnZiE. The only one of these that is really big is JamesNintendoNerd who is officially "The Angry Video Game Nerd" on GameTrailers.com. In times past I have subscribed to several of the YouTube celebrities, but that time is over, I'm not afraid to unsubscribe to things that annoy me.

YouTube is not all bad. It is a great place to share videos, watch new music videos, or otherwise see what's going on in the media world today. But as for the <i>popular</i> YouTube videos, they are crap. They may seem interesting at first, but try watching a few of those videos and you'll know what I mean when I say that the YouTube celebrities have no talent.
