---
layout: post
title: "Podcasts"
date: 2009-09-21 22:58:00 +0000
---
As a high tech heretic it wasn't until a little over a year ago that I got a cell phone, and as a consequence I found myself with a portable music player as well. Naturally I copied some of my music onto it, and listened to it at work. I found myself bored, very quickly. The same music day, after day, after day. I knew I couldn't keep up with this music thing for very long.

One day, however, a friend of mine mentioned that instead of listening to music on his music player he was listening to Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream". I realized then, that music wasn't my only option. And I remembered a friend telling me, years ago, about podcasts. I decided I'd give them a try. I wasn't really sure what I'd be interested in listening to, but I knew I wanted to know about news and current events, so I went to the NPR website and found a few podcasts that sounded interesting. After a few days of trying them out I was pretty satisfied. This was a lot less boring than listening to music all day, and I thought that maybe I'd get educated about current events as well.

Of course, I soon found that I couldn't listen to news radio alone, and soon found other podcasts that interested me as well. What I discovered was amazing. Podcasts are a way to get news, information, and entertainment, that is new and fresh every day. Sure, occasionally music is fun, but you can only take so much of it. In short, if you aren't listening to podcasts, give it a try, you might find it a little more entertaining than the same music every day. In future posts I'll give some reviews and recommendations about podcasts that I have listened to.
