---
layout: post
title: "Software Review: <i>Trend Micro Internet Security</i>"
date: 2010-03-16 14:01:00 +0000
disabled: true
---
One question I have been frequently asked is what anti-virus software I recommend. I usually don't bother answering this question, because most people expect to hear something like McAfee or Norton, or something else that they've heard of, or they want something free. I will, however, give my recommendation here, take it for what you will. I use <i>Trend Micro Internet Security</i>, and I recommend it.

Previously called <i>PC-Cillin</i> (get it, like penicillin for the PC) <i>Trend Micro</i> has vastly improved over the years. Today is is a fully equipped internet security package with firewall, anti-virus, antispyware, anti-malware, and anti-pretty-much-all-internet-threats.

It actually comes in three varieties. There is <i>Trend Micro Anti-Virus</i> which features only the anti-virus software, I suppose you would just be using Windows Firewall and Windows Defender for other internet threats. Then there is <i>Trend Micro Internet Security</i>, which is what I recommend. And finally <i>Trend Micro Internet Security Pro</i>, which has all the features of the standard edition, plus some anti-fishing protection, but to be honest most of the features in PRO are really necessary, they don't work well, and are meant for people who are easily scammed, it does feature a few gigabytes of online storage for backing up your files, but not really worth the higher price.

So what makes <i>Trend Micro</i> so great? Well, the first big deal when it comes to internet security software is whether or not it is seriously going to slow down your system. <i>Trend Micro</i> has always gotten this right. It is the least invasive to memory, processor power, and bandwidth of all the software I've used. In my experience Norton is the worst for hogging system resources, which throws it out of the water right away. McAfee isn't as bad as Norton, but it doesn't compare to <i>Trend Micro</i>. The simple fact that <i>Trend Micro</i> runs smoothly in the background, updating itself, and performing periodic scans without feeling your computer slow down when these things are occurring is the reason I recommend <i>Trend Micro</i>.

The software interface itself is a good selling point as well. It's simple, on the main screen it tells you if you have any serious threats, it lets you know when your subscription is going to expire. It is easy to figure out how to force the software to scan immediately or to update itself, which you never have to do anyway as this all happens automatically. It even lets you take a look at your home network, so that you can see what computers or other devices are connected to the network, so you can easily see if someone is stealing your internet.

Now the firewall controls are fairly strait forward, there are four basic settings: maximum, medium, low, and minimum. Medium is the recommended setting, and I have had now problems working with this setting. Maximum isn't recommended, because it blocks everything except what you approve, but when necessary that option is available. Now, the advanced settings are a little more complicated, and really unless you know how the internet works you shouldn't even mess with them, but it does feature full port and application control. For the most part however, if you run a program, and it tries to do something suspicious the software will come up with a warning and you can select "allow" if you think the software is save. With newer versions of <i>Trend Micro</i> these warnings are very infrequent as the software, in general, knows what kind of internet communication is safe. For the most part installing <i>Trend Micro</i> with the default settings work well for the average user.

Now, about the protection itself, I'm not really an expert, and I doubt that my computer is a big target for internet attacks, and I'm not really doing anything suspicious on the internet that I might get a virus, but I have never had any viruses or other problems, so by my best guess, and by other reviews I've read the protection itself is very satisfactory. Now, no internet security software is going to be perfect, it is computationally impossible for internet security to be perfect, but as far as internet security goes <i>Trend Micro</i> is generally ranked in the top ten by experts.

I do want to talk about pricing as well. When you buy the software you get a one year subscription to the service. Now I know there will be complaints right there, a lot of people will simply want free software. Well in my experience the free software is the worst software. Windows includes a basic firewall and basic malware and spyware protection, but this software is very crude, other software that you can find for free is very crude as well. A crude firewall isn't necessarily bad, but it usually doesn't have the options of something that you would pay for, and basic malware and spyware protection doesn't really matter either because these types of software are usually pretty much the same, and so it isn't hard to identify them. Virus protection, however, is where you really need to pay for the software. Viruses are constantly be developed and deployed, and when you pay a company to provide you with the latest protection they are going to do a better job than a company that puts something out for free. This is why Microsoft doesn't include anti-virus free with Windows, they know it is a lot of work to protect against the latest viruses, and that is work that people need to get paid to do. So I'll tell you right away, forget about any kind of free software. Now, sometimes a company or university will offer virus protection to their employees, customers, or students for free. This doesn't mean the software is free, the company or university is paying for it, and so if you get offers through your school, company, or internet service provider you'll probably be getting the kind of protection you need.

Concerning the pricing of <i>Trend Micro</i> as I said the software includes one year of service, then you have to renew. Now, the renewal is $40.00 to $50.00 depending on what kind of offers they have at the time. This is why I never renew. I just buy a new copy every year. This gets you the newest version of the software, and it is usually cheaper to buy it at a retail outlet. For example, right now <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Trend-Micro-Internet-Security-2010/dp/B002EAYJC4/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&amp;s=software&amp;qid=1268765806&amp;sr=8-2">Amazon has <i>Trend Micro</i></a> for only $27.14. Quite a bit of savings over a subscription renewal. You can usually find a digital only copy on eBay for less, though some of those sellers might be shady. The subscription to <i>Trend Micro</i> also includes usage on up to three computers, so if you get it for under $30.00 you're paying less than $10.00 per computer for internet security, which really isn't a bad deal at all.

The bottom line about <i>Trend Micro</i> is that it is one of the best performing internet security suites. It won't bog down your computer, and in general you don't even have to worry about what it's doing, and that's what we all really want on the internet, a worry free experiences.
