---
layout: post
title: "Some Thoughts on Osama bin Laden"
date: 2011-05-01 23:26:00 +0000
disabled: true
---
I first saw New York City when I was ten years old. Well, technically I had been there before that, but I was too young to remember anything. My dad grew up in New York, and when I was ten my dad and I went on a road trip to visit my Grandma who was still living in New York. To be honest, I didn't really care that much about seeing my Grandma. She wasn't really anyone to me. I had only seen her a few times in my life. I mean, she had sent me ten dollars every year on my birthday, and I was grateful for that, but I didn't really know her. No, I wasn't really interested in seeing her, I actually wanted to go to New York City to see the Statue of Liberty.
So my dad and I found ourselves on the long drive to New York. It was an interesting trip to say the least. As I recall we made it as far as New Mexico that first day, and we stayed in a hotel. There was a cigarette vending machine at the hotel, I thought that was a convenient way to get some smokes. Of course I wasn't planning on smoking myself, but I checked the coin return, and to my surprised I found something like $2.00 worth of quarters and dimes. I took it without hesitation. I didn't have a wallet, so I put the change in a Tic Tac box that I had. At the hotel I used the shampoo that came with the room, and I got some in my eyes and I thought I was going to be permanently blind. I went to bed wondering what life would be like as a blind man, and if I was ever going to see the Statue of Liberty after all. That wasn't the case, and the road trip continued.
The second night we made it to Arkansas. This time we stayed at the house of a friend of mine. My dad had me bring a sleeping bag, because he knew that we'd be staying at his friends most of the nights on the trip, so I slept on their living room floor. These people had a big screen TV, and they were sort of bragging about it. They put on a movie, it was called <i>Folks!</i>. I remember that in the movie this guy was reading a bedtime story to his children, and his wife got out of the shower. She was wearing only a towel, and as she walked past the kid's room she slipped the towel off, teasing her husband with it, and tossed it out into the hallway where her husband could see it. A sex scene followed. You can imagine that as a ten year old I was pretty excited, though I also felt embarrassed since my dad was there.
The next night we spent in South Carolina, at another friend of my dad's who I called Costu Mostu, though his real name was something almost entirely different. He showed my his twelve-year-old kid's room. The kid had a big collection of Legos, and I couldn't help but think, sure I'd like to have a collection like that, but twelve is a little old for toys.
A day or so later we found ourselves in New York. At last I was going to see the city of my dreams. I say that, because my dad, being from New York, had always spoken so highly of the city, and I was convinced it was the greatest city in the world. I was amazed at what I saw. The streets were literally packed with taxi cabs. I remember that vividly. There we were driving around in an ordinary car with so many taxis all around us. I felt excited every time I saw another non-taxi, it made me not feel so alone.
We actually didn't drive through the city that much, really just when we got there. We were staying at my Cousin-twice-removed Penny's house, and once what got settle in there we pretty much stuck to the subways and sidewalks to get around the city. Believe me, though, I loved the subways. Cruising around on the trains throughout the city. I remember a bum came into the train, gave a spiel about how he was collecting money to feed the homeless. Plenty of folks on the train gave him a few bucks without hesitation, and he left. I thought about the change I had gotten from the cigarette machine. I looked up at my dad, he didn't seem at all interested in paying attention to the beggar. So I felt weird about offering my change to him.
There were a lot of homeless people in New York City. I remember walking down the sidewalks and every twenty feet, or so, there was another one, just sort of sleeping out there on the sidewalk with a cup in front of them. Every time we walked passed them I thought about the change in my pocket. I remember walking passed one guy in particular, and I especially wanted to give my money to him. It was a white guy. Most of the homeless guys were black, and seeing a white guy made me think that perhaps some day I could end up homeless, so maybe I should give him my money. I felt too embarrassed about what my dad would think if I gave this guy some money, so I didn't. And yes, as a ten year old I guess I was racist.
As I looked upon these homeless people, though, I felt so bad for them. You see, I saw all of them as ordinary people. I didn't know why people were homeless. I know now that a lot of these guys have problems far beyond anything I could have conceived of as a ten year old. They were on drugs, they were alcoholics. As a lad, I thought they just had trouble finding work. I realize now, that they were probably incapable of living a normal life even if they could find work.
Of course I accomplished my dream of seeing the Statue of Liberty. My dad and I went to Liberty Island, and I went up the Statue of Liberty. They no longer allowed visitors to go into the torch, so I was kind of disappointed, but I still got to go up it, so I was at least somewhat happy. And you know what? I was so excited, that after we got back down, I went up it again.
To see the Statue of Liberty, you take a ferry, and as I took the ferry to Liberty Island I looked back at Manhattan, and I saw to majestic towers standing tall above the skyline. I asked my dad what those two buildings were, and he explained that it was the Twin Towers. I told him that I though the Empire State Building was the tallest building in New York, but those buildings looked taller. He told me that some people called them "the boxes that the Empire State Building came in." As I looked upon those towers I wanted so much to scale them, as I had the Statue of Liberty. I wanted to stand atop them and look down on New York City as if I were deity. I never did. I asked my dad about it, but he never really gave me a straight answer about seeing them.
We were in New York on business as it turned out. Mostly to see my Grandma so that my dad could help her get her will in order. But my dad was also interested in seeing other relatives as well. I was never interested in seeing relatives when I went to New York. I wanted to see the city, not people.
We visited my Grandma pretty much every day, and one of the most disturbing events of my life occurred when we did so. My Grandma said to me, "You have cute little pants." I thought to myself, <i>I guess there little, since I am only ten years old</i>. She then said, "You want to see mine?" And this is where the disturbing thing happened. You see, she lifted up her dress to show me her "pants" which weren't really pants, but nylons. And as you may know, nylons are semi-transparent. So there I was, a ten year old boy, staring at a seventy year old vagina. As soon as I realized what I was looking at I glanced away, and thought to myself, <i>How come this is the way I'm to be introduced to vagina?</i> It has disturbed me to this day.
Well, with that thought fresh in my mind I was ready to leave New York City. In some ways I was disappointed. I mean, when I set out to New York City, I wanted to see the Statue of Liberty, and I saw that. But I also wanted to see the Empire State Building, and after seeing the Twin Towers I wanted to see them as well, and my dad never took me to see them. I also wanted to walk the full length of the Brooklyn Bridge, but we only walked one quarter of the length and turned back. We did see some Navy ships in the harbor, and it was fun to walk through the bulkhead doors and see the ships, but as we left the city I felt that there was so much more for me to see. I figured, though, that I would go back some day.
In retrospect, I don't know why we didn't see more of the city. We were there for nearly a week. We should have seen the Twin Towers at some point, but we didn't. That's in the past, though. It's unfortunate that now I can never see them. Still, my visit to New York City was one of the most important events in my life. It had served to confirm my suspicions that New York City was the greatest city in the world.
One September 11, 2001 I woke up to the terrible news of what had happened. I was in utter shock. I could not believe what had happened. Within hours the reports were that this was likely a terrorist attack. I was angry. I was bitter. I hadn't been to New York City in years. I didn't live there, and yet, like so many other Americans, I took the attack personally.
When I found out that Osama bin Laden was responsible for the attack I forever etched my dislike of that man in my mind. I actually started designing a video game based on my dislike for him. The video game was called "Freedom Fighters". It was to be a <i>Contra</i> rip-off containing three episodes. The main character was a guy named Johnny. His best friend, or wife, was killed in the 9/11 attack. In the first episode, he goes to Afghanistan to track down Osama. But right after defeating the final boss, Osama commits suicide, so Johnny never had the chance to kill him. Johnny was so angry that he couldn't kill Osama, that he makes a deal with devil so that he can go to hell, and track down Osama there and kill him there. That's episode 2, which takes place in hell. However, Osama escapes Hell, and then the third episode was supposed to be some kind of future world, but I never really got that far into the writing process.
Yes, I truly held a lot of bitterness towards Osama. I wanted him dead. I fantasized about joining the army so that I could personally track him down and teach him the true meaning of pain. I had specific plans for Osama, and they aren't nice. I figured my team and I would find Osama in some hole somewhere, and we'd make a pact never to divulge what we about to do. Then, we'd cut his balls off while he still lived and feed them to him. Yes, we would use the most cruelest and unusual-est forms of punishment that we could think of. I genuinely wanted that man to suffer. Of course I never joined the army, for reasons that should be clear in my last post, but still I thought about it quite a bit.
After the initial shock I, like most Americans, stopped really thinking about it. It always seemed to me that not much was going on with the situation. Osama was hiding out, we didn't know if he was alive or dead. We didn't know anything. I thought about him from time to time, though. I remember just a month ago I thought about him again. I thought to myself, I wonder if that son of a beep is still alive? I hope not. Looking back, he was alive when I thought that.
I am very much relieved by the news that he is now dead. I'm happy about it. The guy lived for at least ten more years than he should have. The guy deserved more pain and suffering than anyone else. He is a man that I have truly disliked for as long as I've know about him. I suppose what really bothers me is that he hated me simply because of where I was born. That man never knew me, and yet he hated me. He was a coward from the start. He was the lowest form of human life. Religious people claim that in the end all men will be forgiven, that's why I'm not religious, some people don't deserve forgiveness. That man deserves more than a thousand hells. He deserves more than ten thousand hells. The one thing that brings me comfort is know that we, as Americans did stand as one in our dislike of Osama bin Laden. As I said, I'm glad he's dead. I cannot think of anyone more deserving of that final end than him. I wish it would have come sooner. I really do. That man deserved no sympathy from anyone. I hope the last ten years of his life were nothing more than pain and suffering. I hope that he was living in a crappy hole in the ground. I hope the worst for him.

