---
layout: post
title: "I Had a Table in the Back of My Truck"
date: 2012-01-25 12:03:00 +0000
disabled: true
---
A few months ago I relocated to San Francisco, and despite the fact that I was starting a fresh life, I figured I'd need a few things, so I brought pretty much everything I own with me.
During my college years, I had moved into an apartment, and for months I didn't have a kitchen table. I'd just eat off the counter or what-have-you. Well, I got sick of that, so one day I went out and got a table. I mean, I had been looking at tables for months, but I never really had the budget. Then I found one, on sale, at Shopko. It was $40.00, I didn't even hesitate to buy it. I was so happy to have a kitchen table.
I didn't have chairs, though. So I still had a major problem. I was basically moving my chair in from my room to eat breakfast with, then moving it back into my room when I needed to get on the computer. It was a real annoyance. So finally when my budget allowed it, I got two chairs. They were the matching chairs for my table. They were $30.00 a piece, and so overall I had spent $100.00 on my table and chairs. During my college years, that was a lot of money.
Being that it had taken a considerable chunk of my finances to get this table and chairs, I didn't just want to trash them in my college town, so I brought them with me. All the way to San Francisco.
When I originally arrived in the Bay Area, I put all my stuff in storage, and in the next two weeks I moved all my stuff out of storage and into my living arrangements. All of my stuff except for one thing, this table that I had. Well, my first month in storage was a buck, but after that it was going to be $75.00 a month, and I wasn't about to spend $75.00 a month to store a table and chairs that were originally worth $100.00, so I took my table and chairs out of storage and stuck them in the back of my truck.
And there they would stay. It rained the a few days later. I sort of figured the table was ruined at that point. I'd thrown a tarp over it, sure, but I didn't exactly make sure it was water tight. It ended up raining all week, and I actually didn't even want to lift the tarp to see how things were going with the table. In my imagination the whole table was warped and the tarnish was washing off and staining the bed of my truck.
It seemed like two weeks later that if finally stopped raining, and I went ahead and lifted the tarp to see my table underneath. It actually looked fine. I mean I could smell the tarnish so I knew that the water hadn't been good for it, but I thought, maybe the table would be alright. However, I also knew that I didn't need this table. I wanted to get rid of it.
Getting rid of this table would be the bane of my existence for the next two months. At first, I thought I could just dump it into a dumpster somewhere and be done with it. That proved to be a nearly impossible task. First of all, there just aren't public dumpsters around the city. I figured California was so polluted they just don't want anyone to throw anything away, so instead the junk just keeps piling up around the city. I mean, I found a few dumpsters, but they were always behind lock and key. Ever time I saw a dumpster, there was a lock in front of it. I could have probably tossed the table over the fence and

